Precise Discernment of Dharmas[1]

A Catalogue of the Complete Collected Works of the Omniscient King of Dharma, Rigdzin Jigme
Lingpa

by Getse Mahāpaṇḍita Gyurme Tsewang Chokdrup

bhavaṃ duṣāṃ secanajñānacakṣurviśodhanoruṃ paraṃsaṃgatebhiḥ |samastadharmodayādarśa caivaṃsvayambhuvajraṃ
lukaṃ bhāti nāmnā || [2]

With your eye of wisdom, you eliminate all the faults of existence.Having gone to the other
shore of great purity,You are a mirror that reflects all phenomena.Your name, Self-Arisen
Vajra,[3] adorns this world.

The Buddha’s liberating wisdom is like an ocean, a swelling stream of pacifying nectar.Through
the power of great compassion, his vast, unrestricted path extends boundlessly, throughout
the whole of space and time,And removes the torment of saṃsāra without end; his speech
is the supreme Dharma, from which the divisions of the Saṅgha arose—These three manifest
as spiritual friends in the form of wondrous treatises.

Our teacher, who is unrivalled throughout the three realms, is known everywhere in this world
as the great omniscient Rangjung Dorje Jigme Lingpa. Here I shall give a concise account
of the first edition of his collected writings published in numerous volumes. This has three
parts: 1) a concise biography of Jigme Lingpa, 2) the actual catalogue, and 3) the conclusion:
showing the benefits of this meaningful endeavor, and dedication and aspiration prayers

1. A Concise Biography of Jigme Lingpa

In reality, our teacher is just as Lord Maitreya described:

A buddha simultaneously displays a variety of deeds—In some places turning the Dharma Wheel
in many hundreds of ways, in some taking birth, in others not appearing,In some showing different
styles of birth, in some every kind of awakening, and in some the parinirvāṇa,And
yet all these are demonstrated without moving from that state.[4]

Within the great pure realm of the Unsurpassed, immeasurable and without limit or centre, there
has always been the naturally arisen wisdom of uncompounded reality, Samantabhadra, who
is the essence of awareness itself, the primordial Buddha. The cakravartins of the maṇḍalas—which
have the nature of the illusory net and are endowed with all the supreme qualities—the
rulers of the great kingdoms of Dharma adorned with the seven aspects of union, are
the tathāgatas of the five families, Mahottara Heruka, Vajrayoginī and others who all enjoy
the unending ornamentational wheels of body, speech, mind, qualities and activities. They
never waver from the great display. As the Sublime Continuum says:

Just as on the pure ground of berylThe reflection of the body of the lord of gods appears,So
on the pure ground of the minds of beings,The reflection of the body of the Lord of Sages
dawns.[5]

This citation shows that on the absolute level, the perfect Buddha Samantabhadra abides free
from the extremes of singularity or plurality. Yet from that state, on the relative level
and in accordance with the agent and the objects to be known, for extremely pure disciples,
somewhat pure disciples, and impure disciples—the thus-gone buddhas, tenth-level bodhisattvas,
and in the perception common to ordinary and noble beings—he appears in various innumerable
forms such as, respectively, the sixth family lord of the victorious ones, the great
saṃbhogakāya which is the self-appearance of basic space, the half-nirmāṇakāya, half-saṃbhogakāya
and the supreme nirmāṇakāya. These displays of oceans of kāyas appear at once
in a single instant within oceans of infinite pure realms, in unlimited ways and perform
an incalculable variety of enlightened deeds. The Buddha matures beings in oceans of realms
and appears, dependent on the perceptions of those to be tamed, in the form of bodhisattvas,
noble śrāvakas, siddhas, paṇḍitas, śrāmaṇas, brahmins, universal monarchs, Brahmas, Indras,
the kingdoms’ vassal kings, ministers, householders, gods, nāgas and yakṣas; as lions,
horses, elephants, birds and deer, medicinal trees, edible plants, food, boats and bridges.
All of these appearances manifest in order to tame beings in harmony with their constitutions,
faculties and habitual tendencies; through skillful means he emanates in all of
these different ways. With the indestructible play of the illusory net, he manifests infinite
bodies and unending speech, through which he reveals countless gateways to the Dharma.
He leads some disciples to the higher realms, some onto the path of definite goodness, and
some he establishes in the path’s result.

Childish, ordinary beings like us fail to comprehend this. Our minds are biased and conceptual,
and thus the only thing we are able to understand is as follows: The glorious Vajrasattva
himself emanated as Devaputra Adhicitta in order to spread the Great Perfection teachings
in the realm of the gods. In this world of human beings he emanated as the nirmāṇakāya
teacher Garab Dorje, who was the first to reveal the teachings which are the heart of the
Supreme Vehicle. During the time of Buddha Kāśyapa he was born as the son of King Kṛkin.
In the perception of ordinary beings, it was then that he generated the mind set upon supreme
awakening for the first time. During the time of our Teacher [Śākyamuni Buddha] he manifested
as Nanda. In Tibet he manifested as the monk Akaramati, emanated by King Songtsen
Gampo, and then as King Tri Songdetsen—Mañjuśrī in person, Princess Pema Sal, Gyalse Lharje,
Yarje Tertön Orgyen Lingpa, the Omniscient Drimé Özer, Ngari Paṇchen Rinpoche—the Mighty
Lotus King, Chögyal Püntsok from Drikung, the treasure-revealer Tashi Tobgyal Wangpode,
master of the Northern Treasures, and Dzamling Dorje, the treasure revealer from Kongpo. In
this way he manifested in a variety of forms, according to what was appropriate. Yet all
of these emanations are in reality a single succession of births and are of one mind. Then,
finally, as the vajra prophecies of the Great Master of Uḍḍiyāna found in the treasures
of Orgyen Lingpa state:

In the district of Yor in Central Tibet will come a bodhisattva called Pema.He will maintain
the Nyingma Kama teachings and tame beings through his skill in means.

This citation shows that in this life, he will uphold both the lineage of explanation and the
lineage of practice of the Early Translation School’s Kama teachings. Furthermore, the sealed
prophecies of the Embodiment of the Guru’s Wisdom (Lama Gongdü)[6] and other sources
clearly reveal the unchanging linchpin of signs, omens and bodily marks that he will possess.


In particular, in accordance with the indestructible oath that the master Vimalamitra himself
took—that at a time when the profound Heart-Essence teachings have become almost imperceptible,
like a tiny creek in autumn, he would emanate in the manner of a scholar and restore
the teachings of the Heart-Essence—the great paṇḍita Vimalamitra, crown ornament of five
hundred scholars, appeared in this land of snowy peaks as the Omniscient Rangjung Dorje
Jigme Lingpa.

This holy being had always been completely awakened to the nature of all phenomena. He did not
need to depend on listening to, contemplating and meditating upon the mere words of the
Dharma like an ordinary person. Yet, in order to set a good example for disciples, he nevertheless
proceeded gradually in studying and practicing the teachings. From ordinary spiritual
friends, he received without ever being satiated the nectar of the Dharma consisting
mainly of the Kama teachings. Then, when his mind and Buddha family were awakened, he had
such measureless renunciation that he perceived the whole of worldly existence as a pit of
fire and imagined himself to be among ferocious animals and savage men. Motivated by disenchantment,
he focused one-pointedly and diligently on the most vital practices at Palri
Monastery. At that time, he had visions within the expanse of great luminosity of the extraordinary
Guru—the lord of the families and second Buddha—Padmasambhava, as well as the great
master Mañjuśrīmitra. He received the symbolic and ultimate empowerment beyond conceptual
elaborations many times. Thereafter, realization arose spontaneously; any grasping at
experiences vanished; his karmic winds were brought under control; the false cave of appearances
collapsed; and his awareness was tempered and became pliable. Whatever appeared to
him became boundless, infinite purity; all phenomena burst forth as dhāraṇīs and the treasures
of confidence. When looking at external appearances, all conventional designations and
knowable objects were perceived as a mere veil. Yet in order to guide childish beings, he
illuminated [the conventional truth] impartially and unhindered. The knots in his chakra
of enjoyment dissolved into all-pervading space, and all the movements of his channels and
wind-energies transformed into clouds of syllables. All sounds burst forth as the melody
of the inexpressible, indestructible supreme nāda. All appearances arose as symbols and scriptures.
He was able to comprehend anything that happened as pith instructions, and he wrote
The Mirror of Wisdom and Love: A Detailed Commentary on the Ritual of the Embodiment
of the Guru’s Wisdom. At the age of twenty-eight,[7] his rapture of devotion for the great
master Padmasambhava, the lord of the families, caused all eighty ordinary conceptualizations
to dissolve into all-pervading space. In that instant, the Lord Padmasambhava himself
appeared flying in the sky, riding a lion. A wisdom ḍākinī placed a casket in his hands,
which read as follows:

For disciples with pure perception,You are Tri Songdetsen.For disciples with impure perception,You
are Senge Repa.This is the treasure of Samantabhadra’s wisdom mind,The symbols of Vidyādhara
Padma’s vast expanse,The great secret treasury of the ḍākinīs. Let the signs be
absorbed.[8]

Immediately boundless joy arose in his mind. He opened the casket and found five rolls of yellow
scrolls and seven crystal beads the size of peas. He consumed them, and the words and
meaning [of the Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse] appeared vividly and clearly in his mind,
as if they had been imprinted there. For seven years he kept them hidden within the expanse
of his realization.

Then, while he was practicing one-pointedly in order to obtain the supreme accomplishment at
the great black charnel ground of Chimphu, he had three visions of the wisdom body of the
future Buddha Rirab Marme Gyaltsen, the Great Omniscient Drime Özer.[9] First, he received
the blessing of his enlightened body and the ultimate transmission of the words and their
meaning. Secondly, he received the blessing of his enlightened speech, empowering him as
the ultimate regent of the Omniscient King of Dharma himself. He was entrusted with the teachings
of the Seven Treasuries and the Three Chariots and mastered the excellent tenets
of the ultimate, definitive meaning. He was empowered to teach them widely to others so that
the teachings would not wane. In this way, his enlightened activities of explanation and
composition of the authentic Secret Mantra became vast. Finally, he received the blessing
of Longchenpa’s enlightened mind and became the regent of Samantabhadra. He was empowered
by the transference of blessing of the powerful radiance of awareness, the suchness beyond
all expression, and mastered the realization of the ultimate lineage.

At that time, he composed his Words of the Omniscient One and other texts, which contain few
words yet are vast in meaning. The Answers to Khari’s Questions,[10] which contains prophecies
revealed by Guru Chökyi Wangchuk, says:

In the East or South of the Red Tombs,[11]It is possible that a monastery will be established
with a Descent from Heaven stūpa.

In accordance with this prophecy, on a ridge in the direction of the auspicious tomb of King
Songtsen and not far from the temple of Yoru Tradruk,[12] in the midst of a forest of bodhi
trees, the temple of Tsering Jong was constructed and filled with sacred objects. It is
here that Jigme Lingpa turned the wheel of Dharma—uninterruptedly, elaborately and without
bias—to an assembly of Dharma practitioners, emphasizing the collection of teachings of
the vidyādhara-bodhisattvas.

At that time, the principal ḍākinī of the five families created the auspicious interdependent
conditions to open the gateway to the Dharma and decipher the symbolic scripts. The time
had now come to write down the son scriptures of the Dharma of the Heart-Essence of the Vast
Expanse, the mind treasures which Jigme Lingpa had revealed earlier; thus he wrote down
clearly the most vital, crucial points.

It is certain that when Jigme Lingpa was thirty-five years old,[13] in the Wood Monkey year
(1764), on the tenth day of the Monkey month,[14] he performed an offering ritual during which
he had a vision of the Great Master of Uḍḍiyāna together with a gathering of heroic ones
and ḍākinīs. In conformity with this vision, his first fifteen disciples—including several
holy beings who had all made excellent aspirations in the past—gathered around him. It
was to them that he first taught the ripening and liberating instructions of the Heart-Essence
of the Vast Expanse. From then onwards, he taught the Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse
to suitable disciples, and it spread widely.

The Great Omniscient Longchenpa had previously entrusted him with all his teachings and enthroned
him as his ultimate regent, based on which Jigme Lingpa composed, in verse, The Rain
of Joy: The Treasury of Precious Qualities, which teaches the complete meaning of the Seven
Treasuries and the Three Precious Chariots in a single text. He also composed an elaborate
commentary on the meaning of its words in two parts. The first part, The Chariot of the
Two Truths, covers the Vehicle of Characteristics, and the second part, The Chariot of Omniscience,
extensively establishes the ground, path and fruition of the Resultant Vehicle
of Mantra in general, and of the Clear Light Great Perfection in particular. With the plumb
line of scripture and reasoning he established the foundation for the philosophical tenets
of the vajra essence teachings. Within the valleys of the snowy mountains of Tibet, he
tore down the martial banners of arrogance belonging to professors of logic who boast loudly
of their own erudition. They then showered him with flowers of praise and joyfully bowed
in reverence before him. In this manner, he eliminated the darkness of misguided thoughts
among those who considered the followers of the Early Translation School to be ignorant
concerning the various piṭakas, and thus caused the sun of pure perception to shine. His
kindness in performing this one deed alone would be difficult for us ever to repay.

Unable to bear that the precious texts of the complete Collection of Tantras of the Early Translation
School, the fruit of the amazing wisdom of the emanated Dharma King and bodhisattva
translators and scholars, might go to waste, he compiled them anew. Some of the great
scholars of the later translations, such as Butön[15]—one of the first to proclaim his partiality
and bias—with their blurred vision failed to include the sections of the tantras of
the three yogas within the Kangyur, with the exception of a few texts. This, they claimed,
was based on reason: the names of those tantras could not be found in the chronicles or
catalogues. Yet with profound and vast confidence, and backed by the three types of evidence,[16]
this holy lord Jigme Lingpa composed An Ornament that Illuminates Every Corner of
the World: A History of the Precious Collection of Tantras of the Earlier Translation School.
With logic and scripture he swept away and cleansed all stains of misguided thought.

In a vision of Lang Palgyi Senge’s wisdom body, Jigme Lingpa received the sign that he had been
empowered into the emanated maṇḍala of Vajrakīlaya.[17] Here in the Snowy Land of Tibet,
there are several transmissions of Vajrakīlaya, of which the main ones are the Tradition
of the King, the Tradition of Jomo, and the Tradition of Cham, yet ultimately their wisdom
intent is one. Empowered in his vision, and having gathered all these various traditions,
the interdependent circumstances were complete for Jigme Lingpa to arrange such tantras
as the Vajrakīlaya Great Nirvāṇa Tantra, the Vajra Array, the Great Yoga, the Wisdom Peak,
and the Great Yoga Root Tantra, and compile them into means for accomplishment (sādhanas).
Such a collection had never been compiled before. Here I can only mention the main points
and will not elaborate on all the details; I cannot go into all the various texts such
as those on the wheel of activities, consecration and offering rituals, ransoming the life-force,
the empowerment rituals and Dharma teachings, but all of these details can be learned
from the Great Biography.[18]

In this way, this great Lord was, in this final five-hundred-year period, the sovereign of all
the Bliss-Gone Ones, the Lord of the sixth family—Vajradhara— and his kindness to disciples
who are difficult to tame exceeds that of all the buddhas. In the guise of a great vajra
master, he worked for the benefit of beings. With valid cognition, he proved the authenticity
of the Words of the Buddha and subsequent treatises. All his written teachings, whose
subjects are of great significance, are adapted to the needs of disciples and are like
skilful means through which one can eliminate all the negative emotions of the three realms.
He was an exalted being comparable to the blessed Buddha, who showed the path to the peace
of nirvāṇa and taught the causes and results of all phenomena. As the Venerable Maitreya
said:

Whatever speech is meaningful and properly connected with Dharma,Which removes all afflictions
of the three realmsAnd shows the benefit of peace,Is the speech of the Sage, while any
other speech is not.[19]

The etymology is as follows: subhāṣita means eloquent speech. The sacred Dharma is good at the
beginning, good in the middle, and good at the end. It is excellent in meaning, excellent
in words and syllables. It is distinctive. It is totally complete. It is utterly pure.
It completely purifies…and so on.[20] As for treatises, the Venerable Maitreya said:

Whatever those of perfectly undistracted mind have expounded,Solely in accordance with the teaching
of the Victorious One,And conducive to the path for attaining liberation,Should also
be placed on the head, like the Buddha’s own words.[21]

Thus, if the subject of a treatise is the teachings of the Buddha, and is in accordance with
the path that leads to liberation, it should be viewed as being the same as the words of
the Bliss-Gone One. The heart of all the teachings is the resultant Mantra Vehicle, and unsurpassed
among all the piṭakas are the texts that principally discuss the inner generation,
perfection and great perfection phases; one should know that these texts are similar to
the Words of the Buddha, so excellently spoken.

Moreover, except for the practices of the Eight Great Maṇḍalas[22] and the Embodiment of the
Guru’s Wisdom,[23] most of the activity manuals of the treasure revelations were composed
with novice disciples of this degenerate age in mind. Yet because of that very clarity, most
who rely only on the words are confused by what they appear to mean. In order to please
the beings of these times, who are obsessed with words, the words of Jigme Lingpa’s writings
are profound and of great meaning. Even those who are conceited as a result of their
own intellectual games, no matter how many times they scrupulously analyze Jigme Lingpa writings,
will find it difficult to fathom the depths of such profundity. These writings have
the capacity to gradually lead anyone to the absolute space, and are very rare indeed. The
power of the words and their meaning is such that intelligent people can understand them.
They are so much more exalted than the treatises of other scholars, something that can
be verified with direct perception. For future generations, these texts will become like pith
instructions. In the holy land of India, right at the start of the later dissemination
of Buddhism in Tibet and during the time of the six scholar-gatekeepers,[24] the works of
the great master Abhayākarapāda[25] were considered more sublime than earlier treatises.
So here, in the same way, if we are honest then we can understand that [Jigme Lingpa’s works
are also more sublime than earlier treatises].

[Patrons of the Derge Palace]

The person who became the main cause for the publication of these excellent works, the original
texts of this series of books, was the King of Derge.[26] This king ruled over the ‘maṇḍala
of the earth’ of Dokham’s four rivers and six ranges. He was the guardian of the Dharma
of this kingdom, like a wish-fulfilling tree amidst ordinary woodland. A mighty universal
monarch, devoted to all the teachings and philosophical tenets of both the New and Ancient
traditions of Tibet without bias, from those of the past through to those of the present,
he made unsurpassable offerings and was the great patron of these eloquent writings that
can now be found in this world.

In particular, when the excellent motivations and aspirations of the greatly revered Jigme Lingpa
and the patron came together as one, the patron, [the King of Derge], was inspired by
Jigme Lingpa’s scholarship and the spiritual accomplishments of his life and liberation.
He became completely enchanted and could not help but place all his hope in Jigme Lingpa,
who became his sole refuge. He served the sacred Dharma with great reverence and devotion,
and through his offerings it was possible to publish Jigme Lingpa’s earlier writings. He
provided his financial support everywhere, and as such his generosity for the Dharma was
unheard of. Through his offerings he caused the interdependent circumstances to occur through
which limitless doors [of Dharma] were opened, and the enlightened activities of the victorious
ones did not go to waste.

The vajra prophecies of [Jigme Lingpa’s] mind treasure say:

The venerable Queen Ngang Tsul of Phogyong[27]

First, [Queen Tsewang Lhamo][28] was prophesied to be born as the princess Ngang Tsul Gyalmo.
Later she was born as Queen Tsewang Lhamo, the consort and Dharma Queen of the King [of
Derge, Sawang Zangpo]. She and [her son], the prince and Dharma King Tsewang Dorje Rigdzin
and [daughter], the princess Tamdrin Wangmo,[29] had great faith in the teachings of the
lord guru Jigme Lingpa. To prevent his teachings from diminishing, and so that they might
flourish far and wide, they sponsored group practices of the great and glorious Peaceful and
Wrathful Deities and Vajrakīlaya at the newly established monastery in the region of Dza[30]
and the old monastic seats of Dzogchen, Gyalrong and Katok. They sponsored all these
practices and prayers, and thus were worthy to be called great patrons of the Dharma. Because
of the truth of the interdependent origination of the causes and results of these actions,
which are undeceiving, and their perfect samaya [with Jigme Lingpa], and because of
the bodhicitta and compassionate intention of their lord guru [Jigme Lingpa], he reincarnated
as a supreme nirmāṇakāya here. In fact, at this very moment the investiture ceremonies
at the seat of his previous incarnation are being performed.[31] As long as his enlightened
activities endure, they will support him with their faith, influence and wealth.

[Jigme Trinle Özer]

The one who encouraged the compilation and publication of these earlier and later works was
Jigme Trinle Özer. The vajra prophecies of [Jigme Lingpa’s] mind treasure say:

An emanation of the prince will open the gateway to the Dharma.[32]

This holy being, who was prophesied in this way, was born in the region of Shardo, one of the
eighteen provinces of Dokham. From a young age, he practiced the instructions of Mahāmudrā
and the Great Perfection. He received an ocean of ripening and liberating teachings and
transmissions, and contemplated and meditated upon them extensively. He then stayed at sacred
places such as Mount Kailash, absorbing himself in profound samādhi and practicing the
skilful means of the Mantra Vehicle, through which he applied the key points of gathering
the accumulations and purifying the obscurations, and penetrated to the depths of experience
and realization. The spiritual friends he followed were all non-sectarian gurus, and
from them he imbibed the nectar of the sacred Dharma in vast quantities. In particular, he
met the Omniscient Guru [Jigme Lingpa], who had been the lord of his buddha-family throughout
all his lives. Jigme Trinle Özer became his heart son and received all the teachings
and transmissions, such as the old and new Heart-Essence, the Embodiment of the Guru’s Wisdom
and the Great Collected [Nyingma] Tantras. He was entrusted with the ultimate teachings
and crowned with the name Jigme Trinle Özer. He caused the Dharma and enlightened activities
of Lord Guru Jigme Lingpa to flourish and spread throughout almost the whole of Dokham,
all the way up to Gyalmorong in the East, thus becoming his true, great regent. He strongly
urged the Great King and patron of the teachings to publish right away all the writings
of the Omniscient Guru.[33] The son of the great king and his mother [the Queen Regent]
were also delightedly agreed to this. Everyone who worked on the publication did so with
utterly pure motivation and conduct in the beginning, the middle, and the end, and thus all
the tasks required for the publication of the collected works were completed in an excellent
manner.

2. The Actual Catalogue

Volume One

In volume one,[34] we find the Treasury of Precious Qualities, a treatise that encapsulates
all of the teachings of sūtra and tantra. First there is the root text in thirteen chapters,
and then this is followed by the auto-commentary on the first nine chapters, entitled the
Chariot of the Two Truths, which perfectly teaches the meaning of the three baskets.[35]


Volume Two

Volume two consists of the Chariot of Omniscience, the second part of the auto-commentary, which
comments on chapter ten, teaching the entire collection of scriptures on the vidyādhara
practices, and the remaining three chapters, which establish the meaning of the ground,
path and fruition of the Great Perfection’s extraordinary pith instructions.

Volume Three

Volume three begins with An Ornament Encompassing the World: A History[36] of the Precious Collection
of Tantras of the Early Translation School, which has nine chapters. It first describes
how our Teacher, the Buddha, came to this world, then offers a general and specific
history of Buddhism as represented by the great holders of the teachings such as the Six
Ornaments and the Two Supreme Ones,[37] and concludes with a presentation of the teachings
of the sacred Dharma, an index of important Dharma texts, and prayers of dedication and
aspiration.

Then, there is A Treasury of Transmission: A Treatise Consisting of Valuable Questions and Answers,
which covers a range of topics related to both the Lesser and the Great Vehicles,
in five chapters.

Volume Four

Volume four opens with the Mirror of Wisdom and Love: A Commentary on the Embodiment of the
Guru’s Wisdom (Lama Gongdü). This treatise was written for the benefit of beginners who have
set out on the path of the Mantra Vehicle; its words and meaning are not convoluted and
are easy to understand.

Then there is An Ocean of Vehicles: A Collection of Advice,[38] which has seventy-three chapters
that arbitrarily discuss various aspects of the sciences and other branches of knowledge.


1) The Ship of Vehicles: An Overview. [A Collection of Texts Pertaining to the Inner Science
of Buddhism, such as Advice on the Tripiṭaka]2) The Earrings of Planets: Analyzing the Heavens,
A Discourse on Rāhula and the Stars & Constellations3) The Mirror of the Eight Subjects
of Scrutiny: Analyzing the Earth, A Discourse on the Southern Land of India[39]4) A Treasure
of Cintāmaṇi Gems: A Discourse on the Analysis of Precious Substances5) A Treasury
of Jewels: A Discourse on Poetry

[Letters]

6) Medicine to Heal the World: A Letter to the King and His Subjects, in two chapters7) Royal
Earrings: A Letter to the King of Derge8) The Symphony of Rain Clouds: A Letter to the Prince9)
The Treasury of Advice for Excellent Beings: A Letter to the Queen, including a commentary
on the meaning[40]10) A Letter to the Subjects, with examples and a commentary on
their meaning[41]11) A Letter to the Regent of Tibet12) A Letter to Holy Beings13) A Letter
Urging Great Teachers to Live in Solitude14) An Ornament for Ministers and Advisors: A
Letter to Disciples15) A Discourse on our Spiritual Friend the Buddha16) A Letter to the Spiritual
Friend Trinle Tokme of Ganden Jangtse17) A Letter to the Gurus18) Brahmā's Earrings:
A Letter to Lhodrag Sungtrul19) A Discourse on Meditation20) A Letter to Renunciant Meditators21)
An Investigation of the Ascetic Practices: A Letter to Bhikṣus22) Pratimokṣa-Garbha:
Advice to Those Who Have Gone Forth23) Advice for Mantrikas: Illuminating the Ocean
of Samayas, A Commentary on the Fourth Chapter of the Confession Tantra24) Yakṣa’s Earrings:
A Practice for the Eight Classes25) The King[42] of the Asuras: A Practice for the Evil
Spirits of the Ten Directions26) Words of the Lotus Born: A Practice for the Spirits27)
The Cooling Shade of the Three Jewels: A Letter to Bandits28) A Bouquet of Good Intentions:
A Letter to Pilgrims

[Eulogies of Sacred Places]

29) The Ornament of the Desire Realm: A Guide to Samye Monastery30) An Adornment of Truth: An
Account of the Ārya Palo Ling Temple at Samye31) The Kalaviṅka’s Call: A Guide to Glorious
Samye Chimphu[43]32) Ornament of the Heaven of Enjoying Emanations: An Account of the Consecration
of a New Stūpa [at Samye]33) An Account of the Image of the Lake-Born Guru[44]
and his Precious Footprints34) Song and Dance of the Ḍākinīs: An Account of the Temple of
Zhutö Terdrom35) A Flower of Dharma History: An Account of the Temple of the Hat[45] in Uru36)
An Account of Lho Mön Karpo Zang37) A Treasury of History: An Account of the Auspicious
Tomb of King Songtsen Gampo38) Tassels of the Nyagrodha Tree: A Medium-Sized Catalogue
of the Contents of the Auspicious Tomb of King Songtsen Gampo39) The Lute of Vajra Sound:
An Account of Palri Tekpa Chenpö Ling[46]40) The Jeweled Necklace: An Account of Pema Ösal
Tekchok Ling,[47] Its Images and Their Consecration41) Flower of Faith: An Account [of Sang-Ngak
Tekchok Ling,] the Jetavana Grove of Central Tsang[48]

[Accounts of the Publications of the Collected Tantras of the Nyingma School]

42) An Ornament of the Kalandaka Bird:[49] An Account of the Publication of the Collected Tantras
at Tsona43) The Drumbeat of the Sages: An Account of the Editorial Work Involved in
the Publication of the Collected Tantras of the Early Translation School

44) The Purifying Ketaka Gem: An Account of the Tashi Öbar Stūpa [at Pallo Dönteng]45) The Bodhi
Tree: The Iconometric Proportions of the Eight Stūpas of the Sugata

46) Music from the Heaven of Enjoying Emanations: Advice on Making Offerings47) Clouds of Merit:
Advice on Maṇḍala Offering48) The Excellent Path to Omniscience: Advice on Dedication49)
A Bouquet of Udumbara Flowers: Encouragements to Retreat to the Forest50) Invoking Sadness
for the Unfree States: A Discourse for the Birds51) The Messenger of Renunciation: The
Story of the Deer52) Necklace of Rocky Mountains: The Story of the Steadfast Rabbit53) The
Peak of Intelligence: An Encouragement to Engender Sadness at the State of Distraction


54) The Advice of the Intelligent Bhramara:[50] Don’t Rely on the Words, Rely on the Meaning55)
The Tree of Virtue: A Discourse on the Ten Dharmic Activities56) Oceans of Positive Qualities:
A Discourse on Mindfulness57) A Scalpel for Dissecting Meaning: A Discourse on Mindfulness
and Vigilance58) The Mirror of Suchness: Advice Based on The Perfection of Wisdom
in Eighteen Thousand Lines59) To Remedy the Sophists: A Discourse Clarifying the Tenet Systems60)
An Ornament of Precious Discipline: A Discourse Investigating the Prohibitions of
the Ten Non-Virtuous Actions61) The Ketaka Earring: A Discourse on Distinguishing the True
Nature of Mahāmudrā and the Great Perfection62) Earrings of the Garuḍas: Advice Concerning
Unchanging Reality63) Sorrow Caused by Unsuitable Arguments: A Discourse64) The Gods’
Drum of Victory: Investigating the Approximate Ultimate65) The Weapon of Diamond Splinters
: An Explanation of How the Four Tenet Systems are Included in Atiyoga66) Treasury of the
Two Purities: A Discourse on Primordial Liberation and Alpha Purity67) Treasury of the Songs
of Realization of the Great Perfection: A Discourse on the Transcendental Perfection of
Wisdom68) A Discourse on Refuting Bias Concerning the Tantras69) To Remedy Wrong Views:
A Discourse on the Four Reliances70) Profound Illumination: A Discourse on Insight71) A Discourse
Clarifying the Heart of Insight[51] Through its Homage72) A Concise Discourse Clarifying
the Heart of Insight Through its Homage73) Advice on Taking Illness on the Path

Volume Five

Volume five contains 1) a collection of praises and 2) various minor compositions.

1. Collection of Praises

1) The Play that Delights the Kiṃnaras: A Collection of Poetic Aspirations Connected with the
Previous Lives of the Buddha that is like a Sacred Vine2) The Song of the Wish-fulfilling
Tree: Praises to the Thirty-Five Buddhas3) In Praise of the Lord of Sages ‘Going to the
City’[52]4) The Messenger of Faith: A Praise to the Thus-Gone Buddhas of the Three Times and
Ten Directions Based on the Meaning of Their Names5) In Praise of the New Publication of
the Collected Nyingma Tantras[53]6) In Praise of the Eight Perfect Stūpas of the Thus-Gone
Ones7) In Praise of the Great Saṅgha of the Eight Close Bodhisattva Heirs8) A Commentary
on the Meaning of In Praise of the Great Saṅgha of the Eight Close Bodhisattva Heirs9) A
Chariot of the Two Accumulations: Verses In Praise of the Festival of Great Miracles[54]10)
In Praise of the Secret Practice of the Blessed One, Play of Hayagrīva[55]11) In Praise
of the Copper-Coloured Mountain12) In Praise of the Thirteen Pith Instructions Deriving from
the Treasury of Excellent Qualities13) In Praise of the Sindūra Biography14) In Praise
of the Vidyādhara15) In Praise of the Scholar [Śāntarakṣita]16) In Praise of the Master [Padmasambhava]17)
In Praise of the Dharma King [Tri Songdetsen]18) In Praise of Sengé Dradok[56]19)
In Praise of Those Who Strictly Observe the Vows20) In Praise of the Land of Longevity21)
In Praise of the Mighty Symbol With Ten Qualities[57]22) In Praise of the Wheel
of Liberating Sorcery23) In Praise of the Eight Manifestations of Padmasambhava24) The Queen
of Spring's Far-Reaching Song: A Praise of Longchenpa, the Omniscient Lord of Speech[58]25)
A Concise Praise of the Great Omniscient One in Five Verses26) Vajra Gamaka: Clarifications
in Praise of Glorious Samye Chimpu

2. Various Minor Compositions

This has six sections: 1) a collection of liturgies and arrangements, 2) a collection of sādhanas,
3) a collection of activity manuals, 4) a collection of clarifications and commentaries,
5) a collection of texts for offering to deities and protectors and 6) miscellaneous
texts

1. Collection of Liturgies and Arrangements

1) Blessing of the Speech[59]2) Calling the Guru from Afar[60]3) In Praise of the Twelve Acts
of our Teacher[61]4) A Prayer to the Lineage Masters of the Vehicle of Individual Liberation5)
Taking Aspiration as the Path: A Prayer to the Lineage Masters of the Precious Early
Translation School6) Paying Homage7) General Confession8) Invitation and Cleansing9) Meditating
on the Four Immeasurables10) Promising to Follow the Path of the Great Vehicle: Taking
the Bodhisattva and Mantra Vehicle Vows in Combination11) An Aspiration to Give Rise
to the Three Types of Knowledge12) The Prayer that Swiftly Fulfils All Wishes[62]13) In Praise
of the Goddess Mārīcī[63]14) An Aspiration Written for Gyarong Öntrul

2. Collection of Sādhanas

1) Chariot of Liberation: A Sādhana for the Peaceful Deities of the Illusory Net2) The Actual
Perfection of the Herukas: A Sādhana for the Wrathful Deities of the Illusory Net3) A Ship
to Cross the Ocean of Teachings: A Supplementary Ritual for the Sūtra of the Gathering
of Intentions4) A Concise Daily Practice for the Sūtra of the Gathering of Intentions5) The
Delightful Grove of Trees of Immortality: A Liturgy for the Maṇḍala of Amitāyus, Embodiment
of the Three Kāyas[64]6) A Liturgy for the Enlightened Activities of the Black Innermost
Essence, the Dark Yoga7) A Sādhana for the Single Maṇḍala Practice of White Tārā in the
Tradition of Jowo Atiśa8) A Daily Practice of White Mañjuśrī in the Tradition of Mati9) A
Daily Practice of the Sage Loktri10) A Daily Sādhana for the Secret Practice of Hayagrīva11)
A Meditation and Recitation of the Medicine Buddha12) A Sādhana of Sarasvatī in the Tradition
of the Brahmin Bṛhaspati

3. Various Texts Concerning Enlightened Activities

1) Equipped with the Four Mudrās: A Universal Ritual for Consecrating Supports for the Enlightened
Speech, Including Prayer Wheels2) The Wisdom Ornament of Knowledge and Love that Clarifies
the Crucial Points: An Empowerment Ritual for the Sphere of Liberation, Naturally
Liberating Wisdom[65]3) A Cleansing Ritual of the Dispeller of All Samaya Corruptions and
Pollutions[66]4) Notes on the Empowerment for the Sūtra of the Gathering of Intentions5) The
Loud Laughter of Yamāntaka: A Collection of Questions and Answers Relating to the Aversion
Torma Ritual of the Eight Great Maṇḍalas: The Gathering of Bliss-Gone Ones[67]6) Knowing
One Liberates All: Explanations on the Suppression Ritual of the Three Combined Black Yamāntakas7)
The Nirmāṇakāya Wheel: A Method of Protection to Eliminate Obstacles in the Year
of the Enemy8) Black Mount Meru: The Stages of Activity of the Suppression Ritual9) The
Perfect Meaning of Tantra: A Cleansing Ritual of Ucchuṣma from the Cycle of ‘Arrogant Demon
Taming Vajrakīlaya, the Iron Wheel of the Worst Karmic Deeds’

4. Illuminating Commentaries

1) The Highway of the Victorious Ones: A Commentary on ‘The Tree of Benefit and Happiness: An
Aspiration for Awakened Conduct’ by the omniscient Śāntapurīpa[68]2) The Excellent Path
of the Vidyādharas: A Commentary on ‘The Abundant Feast: An Aspiration for the Secret Mantra
Vehicle’[69]3) Swift Path to the Glorious Mountain: An Explanation of the Practice and
Visualization of Hūṃ, from the Perfect Heart Practice4) The Surgical Spoon that Clears Away
Illness: A Commentary to Remind us of Samantabhadra’s Aspiration[70]5) A Mirror Illuminating
all Doubts Concerning the Stages of Visualization of the Blazing Wheel

5. Prayers and Offerings to the Deities and Protectors

1) The Excellent Palace Containing Offering Clouds: A Ritual for Smoke Offerings and Amendments2)
Presenting an Ocean of Rewards: A Fulfilment with the Most Excellent Offerings3) Fulfilling
the Wishes[71] of the Oath Bound Ones: A Fulfilment and Amendment Practice for Four-Faced
Mahākāla, the Glorious Protector4) A Method for Making Offerings to Durtrö Lhamo5)
The Lady’s Necklace: An Offering to Dorje Yudrönma6) A Concise Fulfilment and Amendment Practice
for Dorje Yudrönma7) A Fierce and Timely Messenger: A Fulfilment and Amendment Practice
for the Yakṣa Tsimara[72]8) A Concise Fulfilment and Amendment Practice for the Great
King Vaiśravaṇa9) A Concise Petition to Masang10) Arming the Ocean-like Oath-bound Guardians
of the Teachings[73]11) A Practice of Fulfilment and Confession to an Ocean of Oath-bound
Protectors[74]12) Entrusting Activity to the Dharma Protectors in General, the prayer
starting with “The Teachings of the Buddha…”

6. Miscellaneous Texts

1) Staircase to the Higher Realms: A Concise Path of the Actual Preliminary Practice2) An Explanation
of the Meaning of the Words of the Practice to Repay Karmic Debts through Offering
Water Tormas3) A Vine Leading to the Higher Realms:[75] A Ritual for Giving the Refuge
Vows4) A Practice of Paying Homage and Making Offerings to the Sixteen Elders[76]5) Excellent
Intention: A Simple Fasting (Nyungné) Ritual[77]6) Cultivating the Pure Realm of Manifest
Joy: A Guru Yoga based on Vajrasattva[78]7) A Three-Kāya Guru Yoga based on Buddha Amitābha8)
A Prayer to the Great Founders of the Teachings of the Early Translation School9)
A Prayer to Jowo Rinpoche Combined with Aspirations and a Means to Receive the Four Empowerments[79]10)
A Prayer Combining the Ten Deeds with the Four Empowerments11) An Aspiration
to Accomplish Perfection, Maturation and Purification12) A Prayer to the Guru to Expose One’s
Faults13) A Prayer to Rigdzin Jigme Lingpa Invoking His Previous Incarnations[80]14)
A Prayer Recalling the Life and Liberation of the Great Perfection Adept Rangjung Dorje (‘Naturally
Arisen Vajra’), Jigme Lingpa[81]15) A Prayer that Condenses Everything Into a Single
Jewel-Like Practice16) Four prayers17) Three prayers[82] for the long life of Jigme Lingpa18)
A Prayer for the Long Life of Gyalsé Nyinjé Özer19) Prayer to the Garland of Rebirths
of the Dzogchenpas of Eastern Tibet[83]20) Two tea prayers21) Concise Biographies of
the Previous Incarnations of Rigdzin Jigme Lingpa22) Some Intelligent Remarks Supplementing
the Omniscient Lord of Speech's 'Treatise to Refute the Malicious and Erroneous Opinions
Held Against the Early Translation Nyingma School'23) The Play of the Kiṃnaras: A Collection
of Jigme Lingpa's Official Letters24) Sun and Moon Earrings: The Record of Teachings and
Transmissions Received by Jigme Lingpa, comprising mainly of the precious Collected Tantras
of the Early Translation School, the sādhanas and activity manuals of the Kama Teachings
as illustrated by the Sūtra, Illusory Net, and Mind, the Seven Treasuries, the Heart Essence
in Four Parts, and the earlier and later treasures.[84]25) Full Discernment of Phenomena:
A Catalogue of the Complete Collected Works of the Omniscient King of Dharma Rigdzin
Jigme Lingpa[85]

Volume Six

Almost a hundred tantric Kīlaya texts, translated by various lotsāwas and paṇḍitas, can be found
in the precious Collected Tantras of the Early Translation School. They have been gathered
and condensed into the Tantra System Vajrakīlaya, which is found in volume six.[86]
An index can be found in that volume.

Volume Seven

Volumes seven and eight contain the texts of the Heart-Essence of the Vast Expanse, or the ‘New
Heart-Essence’, which hold the heart-essence of all the oceans of tantras and the quintessence
of all the pith instructions related to the generation and perfection phases. The
meaning of these mind treasures is profound, and their blessings swift. All the supplementary
texts can be found here as well. A list of these texts is clearly set out in the catalogue
An Illuminating Ornament of Brilliant Sunlight.[87] The first of these two volumes contains
the sādhanas, activity manuals and background teachings which take the vase empowerment
as the path and which relate mainly to the generation phase.

Volume Eight

Volume eight contains all the pith instructions and background teachings on how to take the
three higher empowerments, such as the secret empowerment, as the path, and which relate mainly
to the perfection phase.

Volume Nine

Volume nine contains The Husk Containing Noble Deeds: The Life and Liberation of Kyentsé Özer.
This autobiography, which includes songs of realization, relates how Jigme Lingpa first
received, read and contemplated the teachings, then practiced assiduously, and finally turned
the wheel of enlightened activities. The meaning of his biography is summarized in An
Adornment of Songs of Realization. Finally, this volume contains a collection of questions
and answers on the meditation of the generation and perfection phases, and other spiritual
advice.

3. The Conclusion

This consists of: 1) the benefit of this publication and 2) the conclusion by means of dedication
and aspiration prayers.

1. The Benefit of this Publication

The Verses that Summarize the Perfection of Wisdom, the Mother of the Victorious Ones, says:

If you were to make stūpas from the seven jewels that symbolize the complete nirvāṇa of the
Bliss-Gone Ones and make offerings to them, and fill billions of realms, as many as the grains
in the river Ganges, with them, and then, for example, all sentient beings in those billions
of realms were to do nothing but make offerings of divine flowers, light incense,
and anoint them during all the aeons of the past, present and future, or even better still,
if one were to write down this Mother of the Bliss Gone Ones, the source of our Guides,
the buddhas who are endowed with the ten strengths, if one were to hold it, cast flowers upon
it and honour it, the merit of making offerings to such a stūpa cannot equal this.

And:

Compared to bringing all sentient beings in billions of realms numbering the grains of the river
Ganges to the state of an arhat, if someone were to write down this transcendent perfection
of insight, and then give the volume to an excellent sentient being, the merit of that
would be far greater. Why? If supreme teachers train in this, they can reveal the emptiness
of all phenomena. If śrāvakas hear it, they will be swiftly liberated, pratyekabuddhas
will reach their awakening and potential buddhas will reach awakening.

Thus this is explained extensively. Just as it is said that the benefit of printing the Words
of the Bliss-Gone Ones, the transcendent perfection of insight, is immeasurable, in the
same way the benefit of printing just one text that reveals the teachings of the pinnacle
of all vehicles, the transcendental perfection of insight that ascertains the true nature
of all phenomena, the Great Perfection, and the teachings that belong to the piṭaka of the
profound Mantra Vehicle, the utterly profound path of the vidyādharas, is completely inexpressible.
As long as a printed version of texts with such inexhaustible qualities remains,
the benefit will endure. You should also know that the benefit of listening to a teaching
based on such a text and contemplating and meditating on it is immeasurable. Likewise, concerning
the benefit of giving a Dharma text to someone else, the Extensive Mother[88] scripture
says:

“Kauśika,[89] from all the beings that exist in all the billions of universes, if you were to
lead some of them, sons or daughters of noble family, to the four meditative concentrations,
the four immeasurables, the four formless absorptions, or the five super-cognitions,
Kauśika, what do you think? The merit of those sons or daughters of noble family, would it
not be a lot?” The Blessed One said: “If a son or daughter of noble family were to give a
text of the transcendental perfection of insight such as this to someone else in order to
read, write out or recite, their merit would be much greater still. Why is that so? Kauśika,
this transcendental perfection of insight teaches the undefiled dharmas extensively. To
train in that…you will awaken as a completely perfect buddha.”

Thus, you should understand it to be just as stated here by the Buddha.

2. Stanzas for Dedication and Aspiration

Svasti bhavatu!

From the great icy ocean[90] of the Lord of Sages, perfect in abandonment and realization,Arose
the twelve perfect insights of cessation, the path, and so on.[91]Homage to the liberating
sacred Dharma, which, like the moonOr the surface of fresh camphor, dispels our darkness.
The truth of the path, affording the taste of peace and removing the suffering of saṃsāra,Has
taken the form of names, syllables and words,And been printed with sublime intention,
the magic of whichAllows one text to be multiplied into many. Through this merit, The
merit of all the good actions that ariseFrom listening, contemplating and meditating,And
all the merit from the past, present and future of all beings gathered together,May we enter
the great ocean of the four kāyas of omniscience! Through the power of this merit, may
the fire of suffering,Sprung from the thickets of the view of self, the cause of the unendurable
sufferings of the hells,And intensified by the fierce winds of bad karma, be extinguished,So
that all may attain excellent rebirths in higher realms. May the hungry ghosts as
well be liberated from their torment,Internally, of hunger and thirst, and externally, of
the extremity of the seasons.May their happiness, glory and wealth know no bounds,And may
they enjoy the glorious wealth of the higher realms. May the endarkening vines and vegetationOf
animals’ ignorance and servitude be cut down,And the sharp weapon of discerning knowledgeBring
them the sacred, illuminating insight of selflessness. May human beings, by means
of the excellent boatOf the freedoms and advantages, cross the four rivers,[92]Travel
to the jewelled island of supreme liberation,And there take possession of the gem of supreme
bliss. May the hostility of the asuras, which is so difficult for them to bearAnd leads
to conflict, be doused by the waters of loving kindness.May they only assist one another,
just like friends or relatives,And through bodhicitta, come to find a state of genuine tranquility.
May the gods who are intoxicated by their desiresRealize that craving for objects
is a cause of bondage,And seeing things as hollow, like the moon’s reflection,May they
set out joyfully on the path to nirvāṇa. May all beings, bewildered by the view of personhoodAnd
plagued by desire and other emotions, as if trappedIn the jaws of a crocodile, be
able to release themselvesAnd attain a state of conscientiousness and calm. As if tricked
by a mirage, childish beings are never contentWith their own possessions, and the weapon of
their animosityMakes them jealous of others’ wealth and success—May their coarseness of
thought and deed subside. May bodhicitta awaken in the minds of spirits as well,Enabling them
to protect all beings.May degeneration of the environment and its inhabitants be naturally
pacifiedAnd the splendour of the Age of Perfection gladden the world. At the end of time
the illusory net of the buddhas manifests in the form of masters,A gathering of vidyādharas
whose armour of bodhicittaIs impervious to the forces of darkness,And who beautify the
earth with their qualities of knowledge and liberation. When the supreme essential teachings
were in decline on this earth,May the kingdom of Nārāyaṇa,[93] whose courage is indomitable,The
lord of Derge—land of the four pursuits[94] and the ten virtues—And of his Queen
and family, never decline in excellence. May their lifespan, Dharma, wealth and family
line never diminish.May their abundant fortune expand like a lake in summertime,May they sustain
all beings as magnificently as Mount Meru,And may they be universally victorious and
conquer the whole world. As the tree of giving is irrigated by the waters of compassionIts
fruits of munificence prosper, and in its cooling shadeThe wishes of all beings are fulfilled,
may the pāramitāOf enthusiastic and honest generosity be perfected! Restrained by
vows that control the senses and eliminate negativity,Beings take delight in a state of tranquility—May
the pāramitā of pure and pristine discipline,A treasure trove of millions of
stainless qualities, be perfected! Seeing things as an illusion, and for others’ benefit,Never
shirking from the most difficult of tasks,In which one thinks little of sacrificing
even life and limb—May the pāramitā of sublime patience be perfected! With a stable commitment
to deliver all beings,Who resemble an optical illusion, to nirvāṇa,And undefeated by
the forces of laziness and doubt—May the pāramitā of steadfast diligence be perfected! Within
the ocean of samādhi, unsullied by conceptual elaborationAnd undisturbed by the turbulent
waves of thought,Is a treasure with the flavour of joyous bliss and realization—May we
obtain the pāramitā of meditative concentration! With the stainless blade of the view of
selflessnessThat cuts through the vines of ordinary concepts,And with the treasures of memory
and courageous eloquence,May we obtain the pāramitā of insight that discerns all things!
Unhindered as we lead all beings towards liberation,Accepted by a sublime protector and
serving him devotedly,Through mastery of the archery of oceanic ripening and liberation,May
we defeat the adversarial forces of existence! With all the adventitious faults, misdeeds
and downfallsThat obscure the sun of our own true face, the buddha nature, entirely purified,May
our realization of the five paths—included within the four vidyādhara levels—increase,And
may we realize the true meaning of the ground! May anyone connected to these efforts
of body, speech and mindExperience only the exhaustion of bad karma and its results,And
may they be among the very first circle of disciplesOf the Buddha ‘Completely Victorious’,[95]
foremost among humans! May the realizations of the path that arise from listening,
contemplatingAnd meditating on these works increase like the waxing moon,And may these successive
volumes of teachingsAdorn the throats of the vidyādharas upon this earth! Not focusing
on those to whom this is dedicated or the one who dedicates, but with space-like non-conceptualityAnd
seeing the dedication itself as like someone in a dream casting flowers
in the sky—May we emulate the dedication of the supremely noble, who see reality beyond reference,And
thus may the longed-for result come about, and our dedication be entirely pure!


I, Gyurme Tsewang Chokdrup from Katok Monastery, wrote this concise catalogue of the collected
works of the omniscient Jigme Lingpa Rangjung Dorje following the command of the publisher
(the ‘main cause’).[96] May virtue and auspiciousness abound everywhere and at all times!

| Translated by Han Kop with the generous and patient assistance of Khenpo Sonam Tsewang and
Tulku Dawa, and edited by Barry Cohen and Adam Pearcey. Matthias Staber and Stefan Mang checked
the translation and provided many valuable suggestions. First published, 2021.